we start in the Middle East where five
busloads of sick and wounded
Palestinians are set to leave Gaza for
medical treatment abroad it would be one
of the largest single evacuations of the
sick and wounded since the War Began
last October after Hamas attacked Israel
Israel's sweeping military operations
against Hamas have decimated gaza's
healthc care system the World Health
Organization says there are still 10,000
more patients that need to leave Gaza
International journalists are not
allowed into Gaza but B Barbara Asha
reports using footage sent by local
cameramen a rare chance for gaza's sick
and injured to get the care they can't
get
here this is the beginning of a long
journey they
hope nothing is ever certain Lise Abu
Salim needs major surgery for her
scoliosis delayed Now by 6
months I call on the whole world to look
at us with compassion
I could not believe it when they
contacted me that my daughter was
amongst those on the list going outside
Gaza for
treatment so many need to be healed but
Israel's war against Hamas has closed
hospitals killed doctors blocked
medicines inflicted traumatic injuries
and
Trauma we were struck my eldest son was
killed my father was killed my youngest
son Assa lost his his sight his left eye
was blown out with a skull fracture my
middle son suffers from a leg injury and
leg
deformities and I suffer a skull
fracture blindness in my left eye and a
broken shoulder and
ribs there's no safe place in Gaza the
front line keeps closing in many have to
flee time and time again they have
nowhere to
go this is one of the only ways out not
the first medical evacuation but it is
the
biggest 12-year-old SAR marzuk lost her
foot in an
explosion I wish that the war would end
and that all children like me will be
able to come with me and have artificial
limbs fitted and receive treatment
abroad I also hope that I will return to
see my father in
peace it's a Bittersweet goodbye in the
middle of a war hoping for a cure
hoping even more they will see their
families again that one day they'll be
able to return Barbara PL Usher BBC News
Jerusalem